---
layout: default
title: the project
---

h1(section_header). {{ page.title }}

div(#main_vid). {%include video.html%}

We are 140-character ideas.  We are the pictures of your cat.  We are blog posts about the economy.  We are the collective knowledge that is Wikipedia.  The internet is a canvas - of which, we paint broad and fine strokes of our lives with.  It is a forward extension of our physical lives; a meta-self comprised of ones and zeros.  We are all that is digital:  If we weren't, the internet wouldn't either.	

h3. current state.

We already have a rudimentary prototype of Diaspora running on our machines, and are working like mad to make it all we can be.  Our current implementations include GPG encryption, scraping Twitter and Flickr, awesome design aesthetics, and the initial stages of connection infrastructure ("friending" other Diaspora instances).

h3. first sprint.

It is our one and only goal to get Diaspora in the hands of every man, woman, and child at summer's end.  September 2010 will signify the release of the project in its first iteration, fully open-sourced under the AGPL.  This release will be comprised of several key features for Diaspora, mainly:

* __Full-fledged communications between Seeds (Diaspora instances)__
* __End to end GPG__
* __External Service Scraping of most major services (reclaim your data)__
* __Version 1 of Diaspora's API with documentation__
* __Public GitHub repository of all Diaspora code__

h3. second sprint.

Once the core application is finished, we will focus on extending Diaspora, unleashing a battery of add-on modules and updates to the core system with the open-source community.  We will migrate back to New York City to set up house, and will devise plans to make it even easier for the general public to utilize Diaspora, a la a dead-simple, five-minute setup.  Like the first sprint, the second sprint will also be all about reclaiming all that is us.

h3. flooring it to 88mph.

The future will offer a multitude of amazing new capabilities for Diaspora.  A taste of what's floating around in our heads right now:

* __OpenID__
* __Voice-over IP__
* __Distributed Encrypted Backups__
* __Instant Messaging protocol__
* __UDP integration__

__"The only limit is yourself.":http://www.zombo.com__

For the most up to date info, check out our "kickstarter page":http://kck.st/9QC2zk or our "blog":/blog.html
