---
layout: post
title: another rant
author: maxwell
---

p(meta). 19 APRIL 2010 by {{page.author}}
h2. {{ page.title }}
fAll of these big web services have evolved rapidly since the boom of the internet.  They have got bigger and faster and more full featured as computing resources became more and more prevalent.  Huge websites became larger and larger, and many great companies emerged to help us share our photos, thoughts, memories, and opinions and broadcast them to the world.  They really changed the world, I would argue for the better.   

But what really sucks is that none of that stuff that you create is actually still yours.  The second you upload that photo to Facebook, or post that comment to the New York Times, or check in on Foursquare, you are actually just giving that part of your online identity away.  Poof.  Not yours. 

Certainly right now any one of those companies tells you they won’t do anything crazy with your data besides serve you some fancy advertisements, but that doesn’t mean that some dying company won’t do anything to stay in business.  Not to mention that will all of this wonderful participation, you are establishing who you are in this world, making your mark on the net.  The internet is serious business, and much of this stuff is as real as a phone call to your mom or a letter to your friend.  It’s not something you should have to throw away in order to share. 

The internet grew organically, in a path of least resistance.  Since it is easy to centralize lots of information (humans tend to think like this, it is a bit easier to comprehend), people started posting to the same place, because it is cheaper to centralize bandwidth and disk space to store your stuff. 

But today, it costs Google pennies to store all that GMail space.  We don’t need these big players holding on to our stuff to save us a few bucks.  In fact, its just completely irresponsible to give up on yourself like that.  Now, I am not saying we are living in the Matrix, but think about how much someone may be able to understand about you by the all the information you have online?  Now think about how much of that stuff you actually have control over (deleting stuff from Facebook doesn’t count.  They never delete that stuff).  Nobody really knows what it means to have information be available for forever, because that possibility has never existed before. 

So either right now you are scared, or you say to me, “Maxwell, you are a paranoid techno-freak.  Eric Schmidt told me “Privacy is dead”, and the g00gs does not evil, and all I really want to do is swap photos with my friends from the party last week, send my significant other pictures of a dog wearing a sweater I saw on the street, email my mom and sister occasionally, and tell jokes on my Twitter feed.  Why is that so bad?” 

Think about this.  Every time you join some sort of new service, you have to re-find all of your friends and connections, again and again, and remember another password, and remember to link your accounts so you don’t have to post to yet another service, lest your friends call you a boring luddite.  This sucks.  This is because none of these networks wants to let go of your information. 

Or even worse, what if you don’t belong to another service that one of your close friend does?   From a completely practical standpoint, its hard to keep track of where your friends are hanging out online, as so much is constantly changing.  What if all of your friends have started sharing their real-time pug sightings, or their hyperlocal crowd sourced traffic reports?  You would be missing out about stuff your friends were sharing, and there would be no way you would even know!  But, if everyone could centralize all the stuff they were sharing and  you got your information about them from them directly, you would never have to worry about this! 
 

We think Diaspora is a step in the right direction.  There are still tons of problems to solve.  We are up to the initial challenge, and would love to try our hand at answering some of these problems.  It would be rad if you could check out our "Kickstarter":www.kickstarter.com, and think about helping us create a real alternative for people who want to share their stuff.
