---
layout: post
title: After the Times
excerpt: We realize we've been conspicuously absent the past few days.  As you can imagine, we've been overwhelmed by the degree of the enthusiasm about Diaspora, and we wanted to wait a few days to to let the craziness settle down.  Over 4600 people care enough about Diaspora's goals and have enough confidence in us to sign up for Kickstarter and back us.  Now that we have much more money than we asked for, our situation has changed a little.
---
h2. {{ page.title }}

p(meta). 17 May 2010

Everyone, 

We realize we've been conspicuously absent the past few days.  As you can imagine, we've been overwhelmed by the degree of the enthusiasm about Diaspora, and we wanted to wait a few days to to let the craziness settle down.  Over 4600 people care enough about Diaspora's goals and have enough confidence in us to sign up for Kickstarter and back us.  Now that we have much more money than we asked for, our situation has changed a little.
 
Our basic plan is the same: we're going to build a great lightweight decentralized social networking framework and release it as AGPL software.  We're going to use the extra money to help us reach that goal and to keep improving Diaspora after this summer, and possibly supplement our ramen with the occasional apple. :)
 
In addition to money, a massive number of talented and experienced people, including developers, designers, hosting companies and lawyers, have offered us their expertise.  Though we haven't responded to the deluge of emails, we have read them all.  We're still working through the backlog and are putting together a great group of advisors.

We're also getting in touch with other projects in the space.  We had a great talk with the guys behind Ostatus earlier this week, and we are excited to implement the OStatus standards.
            
As always, we couldn't have made it this far without all of our incredible supporters.  It heartens us to know that so many people share our concern for privacy online and we are doing our best to make sure Diaspora turns out awesome.


Yours,

Maxwell, Daniel, Raphael and Ilya

The Diaspora Team
