---
layout: post
title: A Little More Than 24 Hours Left!
---
h2. {{ page.title }}

p(meta). 31 May 2010

All,

When we started our Kickstarter, we thought our $10,000 would come from our immediate friends, family, and a small handful generous strangers.

Boy, were we wrong.

We ended up with close to twenty times our goal from over 6200 individuals who share our vision. By our second week in, we gained the attention of some extraordinary developers, the New York Times, the BBC, and Gizmodo, among others. The sheer number of current supporters is unprecedented on Kickstarter, and we are thankful for every last backer. Together, we have struck a chord with the world and identified a problem which needs to be solved.

We started with the goal of working hard, staying focused, and making great software, and that's exactly what we're going to do. With the surplus of attention and monetary support, we are now able to position ourselves amongst some of the best developers around. You may not hear too much from us in the coming months and we will try our best to provide regular updates, but our silence means we are hard at work.

Before our Kickstarter is over, we just wanted to address a few questions about rewards.

When the fund raising period is over, we (via Kickstarter) will send out a form to collect the address where you want your rewards sent. All rewards are going to be fulfilled at the end of the summer, around the time Diaspora is going to be released. With that being said, when we started our Kickstarter, we thought the logisitcs of delivering two hundred or so CDs, stickers and shirts would be simple. We thought it would be a nice token of gratitude for our backers, even though in this day and age, shipping frequently updated open source software doesn't actually make much sense. For each of our backers, we plan on providing exclusive, high bandwidth links and torrents of the latest version of Diaspora on launch day. This will always be the best way to get Diaspora, as you can guarantee that it will be the most up to date version.

*When we send out the request for contact information, we hope you will choose an instantaneous download, rather than a silly outdated CD. If for any reason you feel like you want the CD, please just say, "I want the CD!" and we will be more than happy to send it to you.*

The same goes for the stickers and the tee-shirt. If for any reason, you feel like you do not want them, let us use the money we save to make Diaspora even more awesome. If you want it, don't feel bad! Just make sure you wear your Diaspora shirt with pride!

If you donated at any reward pledge level, you are entitled to your reward, and we are looking forward to getting you your awesome Diaspora stuff.

We have set up an "FAQs":http://www.joindiaspora.com/faq.html on our website which we are constantly updating as well, and you can send any other further questions to *questions AT joindiaspora DOT com*.


Thanks again, 
- Maxwell, Ilya, Raphael, and Daniel

